feat: Editorial review: Login Status API and friends (#31658)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/credentialscontainer/get/index.md

The [Federated Credential Management (FedCM) API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API) provides a standard mechanism for identity providers (IdPs) to enable identity federation services in a privacy-preserving way without relying on third-party cookies and redirects. This includes a JavaScript API that enables the use of federated authentication for purposes such as signing in or signing up to a website. For more usage information, check out the linked landing page for the API.

> Relying parties (RPs) can call `get()` with an `identity` option to request that a user signs in to the RP with an existing IdP account that they are already signed in to on the device.

Reviewer: Maybe "browser". Since this won't work if they are signed in on another one?
```suggestion
Relying parties (RPs) can call `get()` with an `identity` option to request that a user signs in to the RP with an existing IdP account that they are already signed in to on the browser.
```

Author: Sure; updated.

    - `signup`: An option for situations where the user is signing in to the origin with a new IdP account they've not used here before. Browsers will provide a text string similar to "Sign up to \<page-origin\> with \<IdP\>".
    - `use`: Suitable for situations where a different action, such as validating a payment, is being performed. Browsers will provide a text string similar to "Use \<page-origin\> with \<IdP\>".
- `providers`

>   - : An array of objects specifying details of the IdPs to be used to sign in. Each object can contain the following properties:

Reviewer: Arguable, but I'd be tempted to move the note below up here (i.e. `> **Note:** Currently FedCM only allows the API ...`

Author: Hrm, I've tried it, and it seems a bit weird having the note dumped in the middle of the definition. Let me know what you think.

Reviewer: @chrisdavidmills I see what you mean. A possible solution is to move the note back down to the end but modify the intro line

> An array of objects specifying details of the IdPs to be used to sign in.

To

> An array containing a single object specifying details of an IdP to be used to sign in.

Otherwise I prefer this to not having the information up front. Note, you do not need the text "this might change in future", as that is implied.

Author: I like your suggestion; implemented!

    - `nonce` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A random string that can be included to ensure the response is issued specifically for this request and prevent {{glossary("replay attack", "replay attacks")}}.

> **Note:** Currently FedCM only allows the API to be invoked with a single IdP, i.e. the `identity.providers` array has to have a length of 1. Multiple IdPs must be supported via different `get()` calls. This may change in the future.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} instance matching the provided parameters if the user identity is successfully validated by the IdP.

This object contains a token that the RP can then send to its server to validate the user on their service. Once the RP validates the user, they can sign them in, sign them up to their service, etc.

> > **Note:** The exact nature of the token is opaque to the FedCM API, and to browser. The IdP decides on the syntax and usage of it, and the RP needs to follow the instructions provided by the IdP (see the [Google Sign In instructions](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/fedcm-migration), for example) to make sure they are using it correctly.

Reviewer: That link doesn't say anything about the token. Is it this one https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/verify-google-id-token ?

So basically for google the token is basically a signed bit of information about the user - you know it to be true because you have agreed the format and mechanism for validating them. The RP takes this and associates (or creates) with its own user account system using some internal algorithm - ie. creates an ID from the email address or whatever.

Author: Yup, that does look like a better place to link to. Updated.

Yes, I think your description is right.

    - `nonce` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A random string that can be included to ensure the response is issued specifically for this request and prevent {{glossary("replay attack", "replay attacks")}}.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} instance matching the provided parameters if the user identity is successfully validated by the IdP.

This object contains a token that the RP can then send to its server to validate the user on their service. Once the RP validates the user, they can sign them in, sign them up to their service, etc.

> > **Note:** The exact nature of the token is opaque to the FedCM API, and to the browser. The IdP decides on the syntax and usage of it, and the RP needs to follow the instructions provided by the IdP (see [Verify the Google ID token on your server side](https://developers.google.com/identity/gsi/web/guides/verify-google-id-token), for example) to make sure they are using it correctly.

Reviewer: You might use a similar set of words to the ones we used elsewhere here - i.e. note that the token contains digitally signed information about the logged in user that can be trusted by the RP

Author: good call. I've transplanted your marvelous wording here too.

    - `nonce` {{optional_inline}}
      - : A random string that can be included to ensure the response is issued specifically for this request and prevent {{glossary("replay attack", "replay attacks")}}.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with an {{domxref("IdentityCredential")}} instance matching the provided parameters.

If the browser's login status for the IdP is `"logged-out"`, the FedCM request fails silently without making a request to the IdP's [accounts list endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_accounts_list_endpoint). See [Update login status using the Login Status API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#update_login_status_using_the_login_status_api) for more information about FedCM login status.

### Exceptions

- `IdentityCredentialError` {{domxref("DOMException")}}

>   - : The request to the [ID assertion endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint) is unable to validate the authentication, and rejects with an error response containing information about why. See the [Error API example](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CredentialsContainer/get#example_including_error_api_information) below for more information on how it can be used.

Author: It was supposed to be an anchor link to a relevant example later on, on the same page. But it was an absolute link so a bit confusing. Fixed now!

}
```

> **Note:** Once a user has already signed in with an IdP, the IdP can call the static {{domxref("IdentityProvider.getUserInfo_static", "IdentityProvider.getUserInfo()")}} method to retrieve their details. `getUserInfo()` must be called from within an IdP-origin {{htmlelement("iframe")}} to ensure that RP scripts cannot access the data. This information can then be used to display a personalized welcome message and sign-in button. This approach is already common on sites that use identity federation for sign-in. However, `getUserInfo()` offers a way to achieve this without relying on third-party cookies.

#### Example including Error API information

> If the request to the [ID assertion endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint) is unable to validate the authentication, it will respond with an error response, which is exposed like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the IdP is unable to validate the authentication for a request to the [ID assertion endpoint](/en-US/docs/Web/API/FedCM_API/IDP_integration#the_id_assertion_endpoint) it will respond with an error.
The error may be handled in code as shown:
```

Author: Nice work; updated.
